S. Mishra and R. Molinaro  Journal of Quantitative  Spectroscopy  & Radiative  Transfer 270 (2021) 107705 
smooth  solutions  [8] , these methods  are well-known  to still suf- 
fer from the curse of dimensionality,  see [5,9] . A particular  variant  
of the spherical  harmonics,  the so-called  P 1 method,  is an example  
of a class of ﬂux limited  diffusion  methods  [4] , which are widely 
used for optically  thick media. 
Moment  based methods  lead to another  class of numerical  
methods  for simulating  radiative  transfer,  see [4] and references  
therein.  For these methods,  one derives  a PDE for the so-called  
incident  radiation  by integrating  (1.1) over the angular  domain  S. 
The evolution  of the incident  radiation  is determined  by the heat 
(radiation)  ﬂux , which is also the ﬁrst angular  moment.  The evo- 
lution of the heat ﬂux has to be determined  from the second  an- 
gular moment  of u , which is termed  as the pressure  tensor . These 
hierarchy  of moments  have to be closed by suitable  closure  rela- 
tions (see [4] and references  therein)  and the resulting  PDEs are 
discretized  by ﬁnite elements  or ﬁnite differences.  These moment  
based methods  can lead to inaccurate  approximation  of the inci- 
dent radiation,  particularly  when suitable  closures  are not avail- 
able. Finally in recent years, several  attempts  have been made to 
design eﬃcient  ﬁnite element  methods  for the radiative  transfer  
equation,  such as those based on sparse grids [10] or sparse ten- 
sor product  ﬁnite element  spaces [2,10] . Although  these methods  
can alleviate  the curse of dimensionality  in certain  cases, they 
are rather complicated  to implement  and can still be computa-  
tionally  expensive,  particularly  when higher-order  elements  are 
used [5] . 
Summarizing  the above discussion,  it is fair to conclude  that all 
the proposed  methods  have some deﬁciencies,  in particular  in their 
computational  cost for simulating  realistic  problems.  Thus, there is 
a pressing  need to design a numerical  method  that is accurate,  fast 
(in terms of computational  time), easy to use and able to deal with 
the high dimensions  and optical heterogeneity  of the underlying  
radiative  transfer  Eq. (1.1) . We aim to propose  such a numerical  
method  in this article. 
Our proposed  numerical  method  is based on deep neural net- 
works [11] , i.e. functions  formed  by concatenated  compositions  of 
aﬃne transformations  and scalar non-linear  activation  functions.  
Deep neural networks  have been extremely  successful  at diverse  
tasks in science  and engineering  [12] such as at image and text 
classiﬁcation,  computer  vision, text and speech  recognition,  au- 
tonomous  systems  and robotics,  game intelligence  and even pro- 
tein folding  [13] . They are being increasingly  used in the context  
of scientiﬁc  computing,  particularly  for different  aspects  of numer-  
ical solutions  of PDEs [14–17]  and references  therein.  
As deep neural networks  possess  the so-called  universal  approx-  
imation  property  or ability to accurately  approximate  any continu-  
ous (even measurable)  function  [18] , they can be used as ansatz 
(search)  spaces for solutions  of PDEs. This property  lays the foun- 
dation for the so-called  Physics  informed  neural networks  (PINNs)  
which collocate  the PDE residual  on training  points of the ap- 
proximating  deep neural network.  First proposed  in [19,20]  , PINNs 
been revived  and developed  in signiﬁcantly  greater  detail recently  
in the pioneering  contributions  of Karniadakis  and collaborators.  
PINNs have been successfully  applied  to simulate  a variety  of for- 
ward and inverse  problems  for PDEs, see [21–31]  and references  
therein.  
In recent papers [32] (for the forward  problem)  and [33] (for 
the inverse  problem),  the authors  analyzed  PINNs and provide  a 
rigorous  explanation  for the eﬃciency  of PINNs, based on stabil- 
ity of the underlying  PDEs. A surprising  observation  in [32,33]  was 
the ability of PINNs to overcome  the curse of dimensionality,  at 
least for some PDEs. This observation,  together  with the well- 
documented  ability of PINNs to approximate  PDEs is a starting  
point of this paper where we adapt PINNs to solve the radiative  
transfer  Eq. (1.1) . The main contributions  of the current  paper are 
as follows,  •We present  a novel algorithm  for approximating  the radiative  
transfer  Eq. (1.1) in a very general  setting.  Our algorithm  is 
based on suitable  physics  informed  neural networks  (PINNs).  
•We analyze  the proposed  algorithm  by rigorously  proving  an 
estimate  on the so-called  generalization  error of the PINN. This 
estimate  shows that as long as the PINN is trained  well, it ap- 
proximates  the solution  of (1.1) to high accuracy.  
•We present  a suite of numerical  experiments  to illustrate  the 
accuracy  and eﬃciency  of the proposed  algorithm.  
•A major advantage  of PINNs is their ability to approximate  in- 
verse problems  (with the same level of complexity  as the for- 
ward problem).  Hence, we will also modify  PINNs to approx-  
imate an inverse  problem  for radiative  transfer,  namely  deter- 
mining  the unknown  absorption  or scattering  coeﬃcients  in 
(1.1) from measurements  of moments  of the radiative  intensity.  
Thus, we present  a novel, fast, robust,  accurate  and easy to 
code and implement  algorithm  for simulating  the general  form of 
the radiative  transfer  Eqs. (1.1) and provide  analysis  and numeri-  
cal experiments  to demonstrate  that this algorithm  eﬃciently  ap- 
proximates  both forward  and inverse  problems  for radiative  trans- 
fer. The rest of the paper is organized  as follows,  in Section  2 , 
we describe  the PINNs algorithm  and provide  an estimate  on the 
underlying  generalization  error. Numerical  experiments  are pre- 
sented in Section  3 , PINNs for inverse  problems  are described  in 
Section  4 and the proposed  method  and results are discussed  in 
Section  5 . 
2. Physics  informed  neural networks  for approximating  () 
In this section,  we describe  the PINNs algorithm  for simulating  
radiative  transfer.  We start by elaborating  on the underlying  PDE 
(1.1) . 
2.1. The model. 
We model radiative  transfer  in a static medium  by the evo- 
lution Eq. (1.1) for the radiative  intensity  u . This partial integro-  
differential  equation  is supplemented  with the initial condition,  
u (0 , x, ω, ν) = u 0 (x, ω, ν) , (x, ω, ν) ∈ D ×S ×/Lambda1, (2.1) 
for some initial datum u 0 : D ×S ×/Lambda1/mapsto→ R . 
Given that the radiative  transfer  Eq. (1.1) is a transport  equa- 
tion , the boundary  conditions  are imposed  on the so-called  inﬂow 
boundary  given by, 
/Gamma1−= { (t, x, ω, ν) ∈ [0 , T ] ×∂D ×S ×/Lambda1: ω ·n (x ) < 0 } (2.2) 
with n (x ) denoting  the unit outward  normal  at any point x ∈ ∂D 
(the boundary  of the spatial domain  D ). We speciﬁc  the following  
boundary  condition,  
u (t, x, ω, ν) = u b (t, x, ω, ν) , (t, x, ω, ν) ∈ /Gamma1−, (2.3) 
for some boundary  datum u b : /Gamma1−/mapsto→ R . 
Given that the radiative  intensity  is a function  of 2 d + 1 - 
variables,  it is essential  to ﬁnd suitable  low-dimensional  function-  
als (observables)  to visualize  and interpret  it. To this end, one often 
considers  physically  interesting  angular-moments  such as the inci- 
dent radiation  (zeroth  angular  moment)  and heat ﬂux (ﬁrst angular  
moment)  given by, 
G (t, x, ν) = /integraldisplay 
S u (t, x, ω, ν) dω (2.4) 
F (t, x, ν) = /integraldisplay 
S u (t, x, ω, ν) ωdω (2.5) 
2 