S. Mishra and R. Molinaro  Journal of Quantitative  Spectroscopy  & Radiative  Transfer 270 (2021) 107705 
Table 6 
Results for the inverse problem for radiative  transfer. 
N int N sb N d K −1 ˜ d λ E T || u −u ∗|| L 2 || k −k ∗|| L 2 || G −G ∗|| L 2 Training Time 
16384 120 4096 8 20 1.0 0.00094 0.65 % 2.8 % 0.073 % 1 hr 44 min 
Fig. 7. Results for the PINNs Algorithm  4.1 for the inverse problem for radiative  transfer. The PINNs approximation  to the incident radiation  and absorption  coeﬃcient  are 
plotted along the diagonal of the unit cube and compared  with the measured  data ¯G and ground truth absorption  coeﬃcient  k given by (4.4) . 
agrees reasonably  well with the ground  truth in (4.4) , with an error of less than 3% . Also the radiative  intensity  is approximated  to very 
high accuracy,  with a generalization  error below 1% . This is even more impressive  if one consider  that the problem  is solved with a 
computational  time of approximately  100 minutes.  
5. Discussion  
Accurate  numerical  approximation  of the radiative  transfer  Eqs. (1.1) is considered  very challenging  as the underlying  problem  is high- 
dimensional,  with 7-dimensions  in the most general  case. Moreover,  the presence  of different  physical  effects such as emission,  absorption  
and scattering  as well as varying  optical parameters  in the surrounding  medium  further  complicates  design of eﬃcient  numerical  algo- 
rithms.  As discussed  in the introduction,  existing  numerical  methods  can suffer from the so-called  curse of dimensionality  and require  very 
large amount  of computational  resources  to achieve  desired  accuracy.  
Hence, there is a need for designing  algorithms  for simulating  radiative  transfer,  that are easy to implement  and fast (in terms of 
computational  run time) while still being accurate.  We proposed  such an algorithm  in this article. Our Algorithm  2.1 is based on physics  
informed  neural networks  (PINNs)  i.e. deep neural networks  for approximating  the radiative  intensity  in (1.1) . The deep neural network  is 
trained  by using a gradient  descent  method  to minimize  a loss function  (2.15) , that consists  of the PDE residual  , resulting  from the neural 
network  being plugged  into the radiative  transfer  Eq. (1.1) . Mismatches  with respect  to the initial and boundary  conditions  also contribute  
to the loss function.  The residuals  are collocated  at training  points , which correspond  to quadrature  points with respect  to an underlying  
quadrature  rule. We chose Sobol low-discrepancy  sequences  as training  points in order to alleviate  the curse of dimensionality.  
The resulting  algorithm  is extremely  simple to code within standard  machine  learning  frameworks  such as TensorFlow  and Pytorch.  
We presented  a suite of numerical  experiments  ranging  from the simplest  monochromatic  stationary  radiative  transfer  in one space di- 
mension  (3.1) to the most general  time-dependent  polychromatic  radiative  transfer  in three space dimensions.  PINNs performed  very well 
on all the numerical  experiments,  leading  to low errors with small run (training)  times. In particular,  the results were qualitatively  and 
quantitatively  comparable  to published  results,  but possibly  at a fraction  of the cost. The experimental  results were supplemented  with 
rigorous  error estimates  that bounded  the generalization  error (2.16) in terms of  computable  training errors  (2.17) and number of  quadra-  
ture points, independent  of the underlying  dimension,  see bounds  (A.3) for details.  The predictions  of the error estimates  were validated  
by the experiments.  
Hence, we claim that the PINNs Algorithm  2.1 is a general  purpose,  simple to implement,  fast and accurate  simulator  for radiative  
transfer.  Moreover,  we also presented  a (very) slightly  modiﬁed  version  of the PINN algorithm  to eﬃciently  simulate  a class of inverse 
problems  for radiative  transfer.  In this problem,  the objective  is to compute  the unknown  absorption  coeﬃcient  from measurements  of the 
incident  radiation.  To this end, we proposed  the deep neural network  based Algorithm  4.1 , which added a data ﬁdelity  term (4.2) to the 
underlying  loss function  (4.3) . This algorithm  was also found to be both fast and accurate  in numerical  experiments.  Thus, we provide  
novel machine  learning  algorithms  which are fast, easy to implement  and accurate  for eﬃciently  simulating  different  aspects  of radiative  
transfer.  
This article should be considered  as a ﬁrst step in adapting  machine  learning  algorithms  for simulating  radiative  transfer.  The proposed  
algorithm  lends itself readily  to be extended  in the following  directions,  
•The quantities  of interest  in many applications  of radiative  transfer,  particularly  in astrophysics,  are angular  moments  such as the 
incident  radiation  G and heat ﬂux F , deﬁned  in (2.4) as these quantities  deﬁne the contribution  of radiation  to the total energy.  Thus, in 
radiation  hydrodynamics,  one often resorts  to using moment  models.  However,  these moment  models  require  closure  relations,  which 
might either be expensive  to compute  and/or inaccurate  (see Section  3.5 for a simple diffusion  based closure).  Given the computational  
speed of PINNs, one can readily  employ  Algorithm  2.1 as the radiation  module  in a hydrodynamics  code, with angular  moments  and 
the resulting  energy  being computed  from the neural network  approximation  of the radiative  intensity.  Another  option would be to 
12 