S. Mishra and R. Molinaro  Journal of Quantitative  Spectroscopy  & Radiative  Transfer 270 (2021) 107705 
Fig. 5. Comparison  of incident radiationn  with respect to the exact solution of the diffusion  approximation  (3.12) and PINN approximation  of the full radiative  transfer 
Eq. (3.9) at rescaled time τ= 1 for two different  values of the absorption  coeﬃcient  k ν= 1 , 10 . 
Fig. 6. Comparison  of exact solutions  of the diffusion  approximation  (3.12) with the PINN approximation  of the full radiative  transfer Eq. (3.9) for two different  values of the 
absorption  coeﬃcient  k ν= 1 , 10 at different  radial locations  and at rescaled time τ= 1 . 
(3.12) for the K = 2 case. This follows  from the fact that the diffusion  approximation  will provide  a poor approximation  of (3.9) for low 
Knudsen  numbers.  On the other hand, given the relatively  low training  error as well as the error estimate  (A.3) , coupled  with the results 
of the previous  numerical  experiments,  we argue that the PINN provides  a much more accurate  approximation  to the underlying  radiative  
intensity  (and its moments)  than the diffusion  approximation  will do, atleast for low to moderate  Knudsen  numbers.  Hence, PINNs provide  
a viable and accurate  method  for competing  radiative  transfer  in media with different  optical properties.  Moreover,  the runtime  for even 
this very complicated  problem  was reasonably  small, ranging  from two to three and half hours on a single GPU. 
4. PINNs For the inverse  problem  for radiative  transfer  
One of the most notable  features  of PINNs is their ability to approximate  solutions  of inverse problems  , with the same accuracy  and 
computational  cost as that of forward  problems  for PDEs. Moreover,  the code for inverse  problems  ends up being a very minor modiﬁcation  
to the code for forward  problems,  which makes PINNs extremely  attractive  for various  applications  [29,30]  and references  therein.  
Here, we focus on the following  inverse  problem  for radiative  transfer.  We consider  the full time-dependent  version  on the radiative  
transfer  Eq. (1.1) , with initial and boundary  conditions  (2.3) . The inverse  problem  is to compute  unknown  absorption  coeﬃcients  k , scat- 
tering coeﬃcients  σ, scattering  kernel /Phi1or emission  term f, given measurements  of either the full radiative  intensity  u or its angular  
10 