S. Mishra and R. Molinaro  Journal of Quantitative  Spectroscopy  & Radiative  Transfer 270 (2021) 107705 
Fig. 3. Comparison  of the analytical  and PINNN radiative  intensity  at the physical domain boundaries  for the stationary  monochromatic  radiative  transfer in one-space  
dimension.  
Table 3 
Results of the ensemble  training for the stationary  monochromatic  radia- 
tive transfer in three space dimensions.  
N int N sb K −1 ˜ d λ E T Training Time 
16384 12288 8 24 0.1 0.00044 1 hr 9 min 
These errors, presented  in Table 2 , are very small for both boundaries  and further  demonstrate  that the PINN is able to approximate  the 
underlying  discontinuous  solution  to high-accuracy,  at very low computational  cost. One can possibly  further  reduce the error by using 
adaptive  activation  functions  as suggested  in [43] . However,  we did not observe  any further  reduction  in the already  low training  error by 
using adaptive  activation  functions.  
3.3. Monochromatic  stationary  radiative  transfer  in three space dimensions  
Next, we consider  a monochromatic  and stationary  version  of the general  radiative  transfer  Eqs. (1.1) , but in three space dimensions.  
Already,  this problem  is in 5 dimensions  and is challenging  on account  of possibly  high computational  cost. We use the same setup 
as in [5] (section  8.2, experiment  3) and consider  the problem  in the unit cube D = [0 , 1] 3 where a source,  located  at the center c = 
(0 . 5 , 0 . 5 , 0 . 5) , radiates  into the surrounding  medium.  We consider  no further  radiation  entering  the domain  (zero Dirichlet  boundary  
conditions).  The source term fis given by 
f(x ) = k (x ) I b (x ) , I b (x ) = /braceleftbigg
0 . 5 −r, r ≤0 . 5 
0 , otherwise  (3.4) 
with r = | x −c| . The absorption  coeﬃcient  is k (x ) = I b (x ) and isotropic  scattering  /Phi1= 1 , with unit scattering  coeﬃcient  σ(x ) = 1 is con- 
sidered.  
As before,  we use Sobol points for the interior  training  set S int and boundary  training  set S sb . Quadrature  points, corresponding  to a 
Gauss quadrature  rule of order 20 are also used. We set N int = 16384 , N sb = 12288 and N S = 100 . The hyperparameters,  corresponding  to 
the best performing  networks,  that result from ensemble  training  are presented  in Table 3 . We see from this table that this hyperparameter  
conﬁguration  resulted  in a very low (total) training  error of 4 . 4 ×10 −4 , which is comparable  to those obtained  in the one-space  dimension  
case (see Table 2 ). 
As there is no analytical  solution  available  for the radiative  intensity  in this case, we cannot compute  generalization  errors. However,  
based on the theory (see estimate  (A.3) ) and on the comparison  with the one-dimensional  case, we expect very low generalization  errors 
when the training  errors are this low. Moreover,  we can perform  qualitative  comparisons  with the results obtained  in [5] with an eﬃcient  
discrete  ordinate  method.  To this end, we plot three-dimensional  volume  plot for the incident  radiation  G (x ) (see the ﬁrst equation  in 
(2.4) for deﬁnition)  in Fig. 4 . We see from this ﬁgure that the results with PINN are very similar  to the results with the discrete  ordinate  
method,  shown in [5] (ﬁgure 8.12, page 126). Thus, we are able to approximate  the incident  radiation  to the same accuracy  as a dis- 
crete ordinate  method.  The main differences  lies in the simplicity  of implementation  and very low computational  cost. We observe  from 
Table 3 that the PINN was trained  in approximately  70 minutes  on a single GPU. This should be contrasted  with the very intricate  parallel  
algorithm  of [5] , which required  considerably  more computational  time as the method  resulted  in very number  of degrees  of freedom  
ranging  from 20 0 0 0 0 −60 0 0 0 0 . 
3.4. Polychromatic  stationary  radiative  transfer  in three space dimensions  
Next, we consider  the most general  case of the steady state radiative  transfer  Eq. (B.1) by following  the setup of [44] and references  
therein,  where (B.1) is considered  in the unit cube D = [0 , 1] 3 and in the frequency  domain  /Lambda1= [ −6 , 6] , with normalization  of energy  
groups.  Furthermore,  we consider  a simple case of zero absorption,  isotropic  kernel, zero Dirichlet  boundary  conditions  and spherical  
symmetry.  Under the assumptions,  by integrating  Eq. (B.1) over the unit sphere S, we arrive at the following  ordinary  differential  equation  
for the radial ﬂux i.e the incident  heat ﬂux (2.4) along the radius, 
7 